Next up, let's talk about a file that I haven't mentioned yet.
It's not technically a part of the Dockerfile
or the Compose file.
It's the .dockerignore file.
This is very much like the .gitignore
file, if you're familiar with that,
which is designed to prevent any
unnecessary files that you don't want inside the git.
But in this case, with .dockerignore,
you guessed it, it won't be put into the build.
So, it keeps things out of our images that
we don't want in them.
First up in this list is the .gitfolder.
If you're using git, or any other svn
product, you definitely don't want those files
in your image. There's no reason for them to be there in almost all
cases. As your app grows
and has a longer history,
it's going to get huge
and you could potentially be using hundreds of MG
or more unnecessarily in your image that you just don't
need. Next is the node modules.
We don't want to copy those node modules from the host.
We want to build those in the image.
This will save us the step of having those in there so that we
don't have them accidentally.
Then any other files like node debug that you might accidently get in
there in your logs.
Lastly I always put in the Docker Compose
with an asterisk just in case I have multiple Docker Composes because I don't
really need that in there.
In terms of security,
if I potentially...if someone were to hack into my app somehow
and to get the files out of it,
if they were to see that file,
there probably shouldn't be any secrets
or anything sensitive in there.
But, it's definitely going to give them the exact design of how
my entire multi-level app works,
right. If I have an in-tier app
with micro services and I've got dozens of containers
looking at that Compose file,
if it was a secret, which it maybe should be in some cases
with private code,
that's going to describe all the environment variables,
and all the different parts of my app,
and what they're all called. That could give a lot information
that I maybe don't want in my image.
What's interesting here is to flip it on its
head a little bit, you don't need the Dockerfile to be copied
into the image. But,
I tend to like to include it.
I don't feel like the Dockerfile itself is necessarily
too risky in terms of the security to put there,
because it's really just describing the app that if someone were to hack
into it, they've already got that app.
They've already got all the information in that app.
So, just seeing the Dockerfile for that app is no big deal.
Of course, if this is open source you're creating,
it's freely available, so I like to have it in there
because that way,
when I'm looking at a specific container running,
I can easily see the Dockerfile itself just
by doing a simple docker exec cat
on that file and see exactly how that was built.
It's a little bit easier,
I find, to read than if you use docker history,
which will essentially do the same thing.
But, I find that just catting out this single file
is a lot easier for me to read.
I like to say that as my own little standard of
showing exactly when this one was built.
That way, for each image commit
that you're making over time,
the Dockerfile for when that one was built is right in
there, and I can easily compare two images
with that file without having to worry about trying to mess
with the docker history command.
The other one there is optional as you may
or may not want to include the readme.
Some people, they really don't want to include any documentation,
to just make their image as small as possible.
I'm a little more practical on that in thinking
if I've got such space concerns that markdown files
are really going to put me over some sort of limits,
then I've got bigger problems.
I would rather have the readme in there just in case someone
gets the image and wants to dig around in it,
especially if it's open source,
and they want to see what the image is doing,
and they maybe don't have access to the source code
or the repo. So, the readme is in there as a little helpful
tip, right. So, I tend to include those in my image
which means I will not put them in my dockerignore file.
We'll be using this file that you're going to be creating,
as well as the previous few lectures,
in our assignment coming up next about migrating
a traditional app.